{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
author: steeve laquitaine\
purpose: post-task interviewing\
\

\b Subjects post - task interviewing \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \

\b Questioned subject\'92s post session and asked them subjectively what they are doing? Are they aware of the prior? Are they aware of their strategy?
\b0 \
\
No systematic questioning  (external subjects were not questioned)\
\
Did you notice anything in the task? Did you use any strategy to improve your judgment of the motion direction ?\
\
I took some notes from the lab members though.\
\
- Everybody 
\b learnt quickly that "some directions" were more likely.
\b0 \
\
e.g., sub02 talked at first about knowing "one direction being more likely" and later\
said that "some directions were more likely".\
\
e.g., sub03 noticed that\'a0 "sometimes the range of directions is wider than other \
times". He says that when the range is narrow it is easy and he "is tempted to be lazy \
and be less precise in his estimation.\'a0 But when the range is wide he has to focus more". \
Also, when he doesn't see the motion direction at all he guesses based on past directions that\
he perceived clearly enough, though he doesn't use the previous trial's direction".\
\
- They reported adjusting their "guesses" based on the feedbacks (sub03 and sub02)\
"giving more weight to large error in feedback" (e.g., Kenji).\
\
"using feedback" for adjustments (e.g., sub02)\
\
- when I asked labs' subjects they said they tried to merge the prior with the\
evidence but that they did not use an explicit rule that they can verbalise (sub02\
and sub03).\
\
- sub04 reported perceiving "Waterfall effects for directions > 270 deg". \
\
}