README.md, before:

# A Switching Bayesian observer

Steeve Laquitaine & Justin L. Gardner

<p align="center">
	<img src="assets/switching_observer.png" width="800">
</p>

Analyse and model human inference behavior in motion direction and spatial location estimation tasks in which optimality requires exploiting knowledge of the statistical distribution of the stimuli.

See also [website](http://steevelaquitaine.github.io/projInference/).

## Task

To run the task git clone the project and follow the instructions given in .../task/README.txt

1. Set your screen parameters (will run on screenNumber = 1, you can change the screen number in taskDotDir.m)

2. Open runTask
	
Run an  10º prior

```matlab
taskDotDir('steeve_exp12_metho_Pstd010_mean225_coh006012024_dir36_t107_073_033perCoh_130217')
```

or a 80º prior

```matlab
taskDotDir('steeve_exp12_metho_Pstd080_mean225_coh006012024_dir36_t106_075_034perCoh_130217')%dropped frames: 0.00 %done
```

note : taskDotDir.m loads the stimulus parameters (each trial's motion direction and coherence and a few stats) stored in a file like (e.g., 10º prior) :

```
steeve_exp12_metho_Pstd010_mean225_coh006012024_dir36_t107_074_033perCoh_controlRndInitPosSymPrior_131224.mat
```

There is one file per prior.

3. When the task is running to enter a response move your mouse to the desired direction, then press 1 on keyboard (make sure mglEditScreenParameters takes "1" as input)


## Data extraction

1. Download the dataset from [Mendeley](https://doi.org/10.17632/nxkvtrj9ps.1) into your project path e.g., `proj_path = "Desktop/project"`

```python
Desktop/project/
- data/
  - data01_direction4priors/ # four-prior motion experiment
      - data/
        - sub01/  # subject 1
          - steeve_exp12_data_sub01_sess06_run26_Pstd040_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_randInitPosSymPrior80_140106.mat # task & behavioral data
          - steeve_exp12_data_sub01_sess06_run26_Pstd040_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_randInitPosSymPrior80_140106.edf # eye tracking data
          ...
        - sub12/
  - data02_direction1prior/ # one-prior motion experiment
      - data/
        - sub01/
          - steeve_data_sub01_sess01_run01_Pstd080_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_170704.mat
          - steeve_data_sub01_sess01_run02_Pstd080_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_170704.edf
          ...
        - sub06/
  - data03_orientation/ # four-prior location experiment
      - data/
        - sub01/
          - steeve_exp04_data_sub01_sess01_run01_Pstd080_mean225_con010_0156_1_loc36perCon_151208.mat 
          - steeve_exp04_data_sub01_sess01_run01_Pstd080_mean225_con010_0156_1_loc36perCon_151208.edf
          ...
        - sub09/  
```

2. Install the `mgl` package for data extraction. Task and behavioral data are saved in the `.mat`. You can extract them with `getTaskParameters('..mat')`:
Clone the `mgl` software and add it to your matlab path. In Matlab:

```python
# move to project path
cd Desktop/project

# clone package
git clone https://github.com/justingardner/mgl.git mgl

# add package to path
addpath(genpath('Desktop/project/mgl'))

# test your installation
help mgl

ans = 
  MGL library functions

  Main screen functions
    mglOpen                   : Opens the screen
    mglFlush                  : Flips front and back buffer
    mglClose                  : Closes the screen
```

3. Extract the data from each file (see documentation in 1). The extracted `data` is a matlab structure with two elements. The data 
are contained in the second element:

```python
data = getTaskParameters('data/data01_direction4priors/data/sub01/steeve_exp12_data_sub01_sess06_run26_Pstd040_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_randInitPosSymPrior80_140106.mat')
data{2}

ans = 

  struct with fields:

                  nTrials: 202            # trial count
              trialVolume: [1x202 double]
                trialTime: [1x202 double]
             trialTicknum: [1x202 double]
                   trials: [1x202 struct]
                 blockNum: [1x202 double]
            blockTrialNum: [1x202 double]
                 response: [1x202 double]
             reactionTime: [1x202 double]  # reaction time is in seconds relative to the trial segment start 
    originalTaskParameter: [1x1 struct]
         originalRandVars: [1x1 struct]
           responseVolume: [1x202 double]
          responseTimeRaw: [1x202 double]
                 randVars: [1x1 struct]
                parameter: [1x1 struct]

data{2}.reactionTime    

ans =

  Columns 1 through 14

    2.1582    2.5499    1.7992    2.6472    1.9805    1.9602    1.1360    1.9403
```

Get subject's **estimated directions** (Cartesian coordinates):

```python
data{2}.randVars.prodcoor
```

Get the task's **displayed directions** (degree):

```python
data{2}.randVars.myRandomDir
```

Get the task's displayed **direction coherences** (dot ratio):

```python
data{2}.randVars.myRandomCoh
```

Get the **response arrow's initial position/directions** (degree):

```python
data{2}.randVars.myRandomCoh
```


## Please kindly cite

```
@article{laquitaine2018switching,
  title={A switching observer for human perceptual estimation},
  author={Laquitaine, Steeve and Gardner, Justin L},
  journal={Neuron},
  volume={97},
  number={2},
  pages={462--474},
  year={2018},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}
```

## References

(1) https://gru.stanford.edu/doku.php/mgl/taskreference?s[]=reactiontime

Commit message:

Add curl tuto to readme

README.md, after:

# A Switching Bayesian observer

Steeve Laquitaine & Justin L. Gardner

<p align="center">
	<img src="assets/switching_observer.png" width="800">
</p>

Analyse and model human inference behavior in motion direction and spatial location estimation tasks in which optimality requires exploiting knowledge of the statistical distribution of the stimuli.

See also [website](http://steevelaquitaine.github.io/projInference/).

## Task

To run the task git clone the project and follow the instructions given in .../task/README.txt

1. Set your screen parameters (will run on screenNumber = 1, you can change the screen number in taskDotDir.m)

2. Open runTask
	
Run an  10º prior

```matlab
taskDotDir('steeve_exp12_metho_Pstd010_mean225_coh006012024_dir36_t107_073_033perCoh_130217')
```

or a 80º prior

```matlab
taskDotDir('steeve_exp12_metho_Pstd080_mean225_coh006012024_dir36_t106_075_034perCoh_130217')%dropped frames: 0.00 %done
```

note : taskDotDir.m loads the stimulus parameters (each trial's motion direction and coherence and a few stats) stored in a file like (e.g., 10º prior) :

```
steeve_exp12_metho_Pstd010_mean225_coh006012024_dir36_t107_074_033perCoh_controlRndInitPosSymPrior_131224.mat
```

There is one file per prior.

3. When the task is running to enter a response move your mouse to the desired direction, then press 1 on keyboard (make sure mglEditScreenParameters takes "1" as input)


## Data extraction

1. Download the dataset from [Mendeley](https://doi.org/10.17632/nxkvtrj9ps.1) into your project path e.g., `proj_path = "Desktop/project"`

Run from the terminal:

```bash
curl https://prod-dcd-datasets-cache-zipfiles.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/nxkvtrj9ps-1.zip --output dataset.zip
```

The dataset should look like this:

```python
Desktop/project/
- data/
  - data01_direction4priors/ # four-prior motion experiment
      - data/
        - sub01/  # subject 1
          - steeve_exp12_data_sub01_sess06_run26_Pstd040_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_randInitPosSymPrior80_140106.mat # task & behavioral data
          - steeve_exp12_data_sub01_sess06_run26_Pstd040_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_randInitPosSymPrior80_140106.edf # eye tracking data
          ...
        - sub12/
  - data02_direction1prior/ # one-prior motion experiment
      - data/
        - sub01/
          - steeve_data_sub01_sess01_run01_Pstd080_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_170704.mat
          - steeve_data_sub01_sess01_run02_Pstd080_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_170704.edf
          ...
        - sub06/
  - data03_orientation/ # four-prior location experiment
      - data/
        - sub01/
          - steeve_exp04_data_sub01_sess01_run01_Pstd080_mean225_con010_0156_1_loc36perCon_151208.mat 
          - steeve_exp04_data_sub01_sess01_run01_Pstd080_mean225_con010_0156_1_loc36perCon_151208.edf
          ...
        - sub09/  
```

2. Install the `mgl` package for data extraction. Task and behavioral data are saved in the `.mat`. You can extract them with `getTaskParameters('..mat')`:
Clone the `mgl` software and add it to your matlab path. In Matlab:

```python
# move to project path
cd Desktop/project

# clone package
git clone https://github.com/justingardner/mgl.git mgl

# add package to path
addpath(genpath('Desktop/project/mgl'))

# test your installation
help mgl

ans = 
  MGL library functions

  Main screen functions
    mglOpen                   : Opens the screen
    mglFlush                  : Flips front and back buffer
    mglClose                  : Closes the screen
```

3. Extract the data from each file (see documentation in 1). The extracted `data` is a matlab structure with two elements. The data 
are contained in the second element:

```python
data = getTaskParameters('data/data01_direction4priors/data/sub01/steeve_exp12_data_sub01_sess06_run26_Pstd040_mean225_coh006_012_024_dir36_randInitPosSymPrior80_140106.mat')
data{2}

ans = 

  struct with fields:

                  nTrials: 202            # trial count
              trialVolume: [1x202 double]
                trialTime: [1x202 double]
             trialTicknum: [1x202 double]
                   trials: [1x202 struct]
                 blockNum: [1x202 double]
            blockTrialNum: [1x202 double]
                 response: [1x202 double]
             reactionTime: [1x202 double]  # reaction time is in seconds relative to the trial segment start 
    originalTaskParameter: [1x1 struct]
         originalRandVars: [1x1 struct]
           responseVolume: [1x202 double]
          responseTimeRaw: [1x202 double]
                 randVars: [1x1 struct]
                parameter: [1x1 struct]

data{2}.reactionTime    

ans =

  Columns 1 through 14

    2.1582    2.5499    1.7992    2.6472    1.9805    1.9602    1.1360    1.9403
```

Get subject's **estimated directions** (Cartesian coordinates):

```python
data{2}.randVars.prodcoor
```

Get the task's **displayed directions** (degree):

```python
data{2}.randVars.myRandomDir
```

Get the task's displayed **direction coherences** (dot ratio):

```python
data{2}.randVars.myRandomCoh
```

Get the **response arrow's initial position/directions** (degree):

```python
data{2}.randVars.myRandomCoh
```


## Please kindly cite

```
@article{laquitaine2018switching,
  title={A switching observer for human perceptual estimation},
  author={Laquitaine, Steeve and Gardner, Justin L},
  journal={Neuron},
  volume={97},
  number={2},
  pages={462--474},
  year={2018},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}
```

## References

(1) https://gru.stanford.edu/doku.php/mgl/taskreference?s[]=reactiontime
